It's just… it's just…
This is the OGM weekly call for Thursday, November 6th, 2025.
Uh, and we're talking about switching from left-hand drive to right-hand drive.
whoops.
And inconveniently, I was just receiving a call, which I declined.
Um,
Actually, it's about driving on the left side of the road to driving on the right side of the road.
Thank you, yeah, I was trying to…
the right-hand drive and left-hand drive is the… is the reverse thing, it's where the wheel is.
And left-hand drive is… right.
Exactly.
And I… I… can anybody Google whether other countries have done this besides Sweden?
So…
or even Claude, or somebody else?
Uh, there's a couple. Iceland…
Nigeria, Ghana, Saudi Arabia, Yemen.
Yeah. I mean, there were so many…
Peter does all do it overnight?
Um…
What's fascinating… What's fascinating is that all…
Pretty close, yeah.
implies a level of coordination that's probably rare.
Uh, it's… I haven't quite got to how fast it was, but it was pretty fast, too.
You kind of have to do it… you have to do it all at once. Go ahead, Alex.
Yeah, yeah.
It's fascinating, though, that. The main reason was… it was the British Empire, and they drove on the left.
Yeah.
So why did the U.S. go to the right from the start.
It's… it's… it's whether you descend from England or Germany.
There were supposedly colony ones, sort of.
So, Germans were on the right.
So, was there a time where the. different states in the U.S.
the carriages were driving in the wrong… the different side.
That's a good question.
A good question. We, you know, we could look this up. And I seem to remember that at one point, left or right-hand drive had to do with which hand was free when you were in the carriage.
with horses. And so if you… most people are right-handed, so you wanted to be able to use your right hand
Defensively, I have no idea, but I think that had something to do with…
From jousting?
I heard that it's… I heard that it stems from tournaments, from Knights tournaments, where you have the right-hand free for your jousting tournaments, where your right hand free for your weapon, but that may be totally crap, I don't know.
Yeah. So here we go. We have our amateur historical theories.
Uh, to warm up our space.
I think another one is, what side of the ship you unload.
Well, that's port and starboard.
And…
Hmm.
Do you think is connected?
But I think that descended, or it went into… yeah.
Hmm.
Oh, now I'm… Latigo is a whip.
Victoria. Um…
The, um…
briefly, we… before the invented the rudder at the stern of the ship,
Uh, there were steer boards.
And this is the origin of the words, uh, cyborg.
Uh, because it was actually the… well, more interestingly, perhaps,
The steer board, because most people were right-handed, was usually on the right side of your ship,
And you didn't want to damage the steer board when you docked, so you would dock on… you would put the port on the port side.
And that's why we have steerboard and port.
Which became important starboard.
Oh, right. I like that.
Yeah, so that's why it's the port. The port was always on your left.
I'm so glad I come to OGM.
You know…
I work over all kinds of things.
Alright, some days I feel like cliff clavering. I'm full of shit like that, so…
Um, off we go.
The different countries switched in one day. The difference is actually the lead time. Sweden took 3 or 4 years, and other countries took 1 or 2.
Mm-hmm.
Thank you. Um…
Fabulous. Today, we are on the first Thursday of November, which
typically means we do a check-in routine,
Um, Victoria, I don't think you've been through one of our check-in runs, so I'll explain the protocol.
I am going to not moderate until everybody has checked in only once.
We don't want any conversation between the check-ins. Each of us is just going to check in and say, what OGME thing is on our minds, or have we done?
is, like, active for us.
It's not… the idea is not to, sort of, dump the whole laundry list of everything you're doing into the call, but rather to pick something that feels…
exemplifies what you've been up to in some sense.
And, uh, we don't use the chat, and this is difficult, I know, but especially for Pete and for me, who adore…
Um, following things up with, oh, I found it, I found it, here's… look, look what the link is.
Uh, but Pina and I will probably do that privately, and then once everybody has checked in once, we switch back into normal conversational mode,
But I… during the check-in, whoever wants to talk next, raise your hand, or just, if nobody has their hand raised, just step in.
step into the call. Whenever you're moved to, uh,
check in. And, um…
What am I forgetting about the protocol?
I think that's most of it. So, try not to engage in conversation during the check-in route. It's just one person at a time.
And then just make notes on a piece of paper or in the chat without hitting enter, without hitting return, so it doesn't go to the chat.
But make notes about stuff you'd like to talk about when we go back into conversation mode. That's all.
Uh, there you go. Excellent.
So, with that, I am going to mute myself, and uh…
Oh, oh, I know what I forgot.
We… during check-in rounds, we like, um, empty space. We like quiet.
So, it's perfectly fine for us to be still,
And just hang out with each other, kind of quicker meeting style.
That is a big plus, because
This is a bit of an antidote to our normally frenzied pace.
Uh, through conversations.
That's the thing I forgot.
Jerry, could I just suggest, before we go into formal check-in round, that, uh, silence is not a terrible thing even during a normal call?
We might have a little more breath.
Oh, and…
Anytime.
Yep.
Agreed, and I occasionally… I occasionally take us into silence during a normal call, but I often… I often forget for too long, so…
I welcome it when you do it.
Thank you. And I love taking groups into silence, and they always welcome it. Everybody's like, oh, okay, good.
And you can just see people.
tune in differently, so it's lovely. Thank you for the reminder again.
Uh, with that, I'm going to mute myself and see who wants to be our first, uh, check-in.
I think I'm gonna go first.
Um, so… thinking about my personal projects and stuff.
I stumbled onto a guy named Kevin McLeod. through a documentary that I haven't watched yet. So, Kevin McLeod.
has made 2,000 pieces of royalty-free music. And made them available under the Creative Commons.
he did this just… He was a composer and decided to start doing this.
And as a result, his music has been picked up and used.
In the backgrounds of… countless TikTok videos and… Facebook Reels and all that kind of stuff.
Um, one of his songs has been played 31.6 billion times.
He's the most prolific composer you've never heard of, according to the New York Times.
And what it made me think about… was the idea of… Remixability.
of what you are producing. And instead of making meals, making.
Perhaps ingredients or recipes. And things that other people can and want to use to create things that are theirs.
as opposed to… spending most of my time creating something that's… perfect and self-contained, and… is its own thing.
never to be taken apart and…
given a life of its own. through interactions with other people.
So, that relates to the projects that I've been working on, and it's kind of given me a different sort of perspective on.
that idea? How can I make the things that I'm doing.
more… remixable by the people who might want to use them.
I've talked about my universals. uh, set of… frameworks, and I've… turned them into a little deck that I've been playing around with.
And the ability to take. several, and move them around, and recombine them, and… all of that has changed it for me.
And I hope that it's going to make it actually more usable.
for other people, should I publish this?
Well, I'll go.
And I'll confess I'm finding it very hard not to comment on what Scott just said, but I won't.
Most OGM-y thing for me and Alex will like hearing about this. I've been working on vibe coding, um, a technique for scrubbing, uh, for automatically de-identifying.
transcripts of coaching conversation that I'm having with my clients. As most of you know, I'm
Primarily working these days as an executive coach.
Excuse me.
Um, for CXOs and founders, uh, who are purpose-driven. Um, I, um,
I de-identify the conversations, I feed them into one of two bots that I've got running, one on Delphi and one that Alex and I have been building custom in the lab, which is more cool and sophisticated.
And of course, to use that, I have to get any personally identifying information out of the scheme. I've done that with manual global search and replace for a long time, and now I've got… Claude has built me a drag-and-drop,
finished configuring it yesterday, and today I'll test it on a handful of clients and see how well it does, and if it works well, then we're off to the races.
Um, and, um…
Aside from the specifics of that, it's cool for me to be diving in… this is my first re-entry into the world of coding in, like, 100 years.
And so, kind of remarkable what, uh, what's possible, um,
Both out of the box and with the kind of fine-tuning that becomes available. I know that a number of you have done way more than me.
Um, but that's the OGME report from me for today.
And I'm still here, but I'm gonna hide, because I'm preparing breakfast, and you don't want to watch that.
I'll go, um… If I may. Um… Something that surprised me, uh, happened.
This week, I came across this week, like, sadly it's going to be an AI thing, but slightly different, I hope.
So, ever since LLMs have become so powerful, I have set up a number of them where.
the scandal finance pages, and they give me a report every morning, they scan lots of medical things, give me reports, etc.
So, won't go into it, but I just wanted to know what China was saying.
And I repurposed. I'll use the usual, the same format, more or less. I repurposed it so that.
it's task, as I asked it. was to… scan all the Chinese, or as many Chinese.
big daily website papers, whatever. and tell me what the Chinese are talking about.
Just that. And what I've found, cut a long story short, is that… I'm using ChatGPT. It wouldn't… not give me what the Chinese papers are saying without telling me.
why they're either wrong, or… this is a true situation, or whatever. It was as if.
inbuilt into the AI. is this bit that says.
what have the Chinese say is not true? this is the interpretation that we're giving. And I've tried really hard to say to it, do not.
comment on it. Do not do anything. All I want is a strap line of what they're saying. That is it.
And the reason I found it interesting was because, in the end, I gave up, because I just wouldn't do it.
Um, the reason I find it interesting is because when DeepSeek came up, which is the Chinese thing.
the whole press was saying it's biased towards. pro-China stuff.
And it was, if you… if you tried to do anything, anything politics with it, it would, and particularly Tiananmen Square.
it would actually not… not behave in our bios standards.
But I was surprised to see how… Obviously, in my opinion, it's inbuilt into the training data.
But we have our biases as well. And more to the point.
it's, you know, we talk about AI being safe and whatever, you know, all this.
And I'm surprised that it's so in-built. I could talk about this for a lot further, but basically, it just surprised me.
that our AIs are also quite. Opinionated in certain directions, particularly that one.
Um, so…
I'll go.
Um… as you may know, I've been using Agentic AI
assistance for software development for, I don't know, 6-8 months, probably longer than that. Um, so I'm using… I've been using Cloud Code, um, and it…
is… it works with me about at the level of a human software developer.
Um, agentic means lots of crazy things, and AI means lots of crazy things, but when I say agentic AI, it's a coding assistant.
What I mean is…
Something like an LLM, but set up so that it can read and write many files, source code files or text files, or whatever. And also,
Um, one of the things it does is, uh, you can tell it
to do something, and it will make a little list for itself. Here's a bunch of to-dos that I need to get Pete's bug fixed or feature implemented, or something like that.
And then it goes down that list and checks them off, and does another thing, checks it off, does another thing. So it takes the LLM experience and kind of up-levels it towards
An autonomous human kind of level, and I don't mean that it's smart like a human, or…
thoughtful like a human, or creative like a human.
Although it kind of is, all of those. Um…
Uh, so, a thing that I've been tracking for a long time is doing the same thing with, uh, text, either non-fiction or fiction.
Um, having a bot understand
Like, a big chunk of, um, uh, serial fiction, for instance, and being able to write new episodes, or going over the whole thing and making a plan for
you know, new, uh, volume in a series, something like that.
does that really well. Um, I think it would also work great for a legal team.
Um, doing a bunch of work with lots of documents, and they kind of all need to fit together and change, you know, together, and…
Uh, tell me, you know, tell me the…
Um, overarching meaning of these documents together. Tell me which ones don't quite fit right. How would you rewrite it?
Go ahead and try rewriting that and see if I like the draft that you do. No, I don't like that one, throw it away, do another one. So…
non-fiction, big research studies, fiction, uh, legal stuff, um, anything where you're using a corpus of documents and multiple people.
So I've been super excited about this for a while, and have a hard time explaining to people why it's cool, and why they should be doing it as the same… same like me. I finally got the first taste of… I've worked with a couple people,
adopting these tools, and…
It's kind of a mix of, like, terror because, you know, there's a lot of overhead to get to be able to work with the tool.
Um, it doesn't feel like a lot of overhead to me, because software developers built these things, so they built it so it…
just fits… slots perfectly into a software development thing.
And for me, it feels like there's a little bit of a difference between
building software and building Obsidian vault, and yada yada, and using Git, and it gets more and more complicated, kind of.
So, um… so the newest one, Cloud Code, now has a web version. You don't have to use your terminal.
Um, there's another one called Droid from a company named Factory Eye, which also has a web.
The web versions also work on mobile, kind of, so we're right at the cusp of these things not being where you need a geek to… you don't need to be a geek to use it.
Um, however, I've also… I've also kind of had a…
I was really disappointed in the…
And the difficulty with which a non-technical person had to kind of, like, muscle their way through it.
I was watching somebody use it, and they were happy.
But I could see it was kind of like they had an oven mitts on, and they were trying to do, you know, fine-grained tasks.
Um, so…
Anyway, long story short, um, I think… I think Cloud Code Web…
I… at least some people are getting a $250 credit. If you go to your Cloud Pro account,
it might say, you should try Cloud Code Web. It's… and here's $250 for you to spend by November 18th. Um, Droid has another big promotion right now.
Um, more people should be doing this, and I'm kind of pulling back from saying everybody should do it right away, because
It's a little hard, um…
And using the web version is actually even a little bit more hard than the terminal version, I think.
Um, it's… it's an easier on-ramp, but goes…
Because it's harder… it's more like molasses or something like that. Um, everybody's gonna be doing this kind of stuff in 18 months, 24 months. Um, you could be doing it today. I would love to show some people how to do that more.
Um, kind of as a coda, one of the things that I've been doing, a lot of times from an OGM call,
Uh, somebody will mention something, um…
Uh, I think it was last week, actually, Stacy mentioned something about, um,
uh… people in her building working together, and that makes a… a little…
society that protects itself from outsiders and things like that.
And I said, huh, that reminds me of the broken windows theory, that reminds me of this, that reminds me of that. And so…
I think I've been doing for about 6 months is…
I know there's a bunch of frameworks around a topic,
Um, hey, AI, help me put together a wiki, uh, you know, a 20-page, kind of,
paper slash thesis slash framework slash overview of sometimes things that are a little bit different, that people have kind of been looking at the same part of the world.
and coming up with different ways to do it, and they don't talk to each other. So, the most fun for me is when me and the AI can kind of smash
frameworks together that ought to go together, but never have before. And so I've been building these 10, 20-page websites like that.
collective efficacy, social cyclic theories, the intention-action gap.
strategy and management frameworks, government governance principles, commons stewardship by communities.
And I… I just do these kind of one-off things, and they're half, like, amazing, and I've… I've pointed out a couple of them in the OGM list.
Um, and half I'm embarrassed by it, because it's mostly built by AI.
So, I'm working with an…
the AIs now to kind of frame that into what is good about these things, and what is bad.
How do humans work with them? Why is it okay that the, um…
that the AI has kind of organized things in a way that makes sense. So, I'm working on kind of a meta-collection of all these things together called
field of sheaths. Each of these things is… I'm thinking of as a sheaf.
Um, so now I've got, you know, 6 or 8 sheaves of whatever these things knowledge together. And, um, so I'm working on that. I'm too embarrassed to release it, and uh… yet. Um, but I am working on it. If this is something that's like, oh my gosh, Pete,
Could I help, you know, could I do that? Could you help me do one of those myself? Um, I'd love to… love to hear from you.
I'll go next quickly. If you guys got the Plex.
Uh… I think, um… You should, uh… I'm really happy about the two people I asked to write for it, and they wrote this one, and I didn't have anything, and I was very happy with it, so…
Well, I'll toss in what I've been thinking about.
Uh, we're playing with the notion of growth. The framework is kind of like, how do I…
uh, integrate, uh…
regenerative notions that I've been, you know, developing over the last few years have been, you know, that have been emerging, I think, in many spaces in the last few years.
into, kind of, the technocratic public policy background that I've… that I've always, uh…
bottled myself in. And… one of the key underlying things is that in the public policy world, we don't really
focus on living systems. You know, we… we may talk about systems, we may, you know, and maybe not often even that. You just talk about optimization and
efficiencies, and kind of, you know, there's, there's, uh…
these other values that get, um…
being used as proxies for something good, I think.
Um, and so we, you know, you tend to get trapped into making things a little bit better.
Uh, and rarely can you get to kind of a positive sum outcome abundance kind of notions.
Um, and so I've been like, well, how would I retrofit some of that into, you know, our old…
borrow, uh, the old framings.
And, you know, what in another version of that is? What can we learn from traditional economics? Like, a lot of people kind of want to just throw it away and say economists are fools, and…
you know, they're all… they're funny, I like to make fun of them and stuff. But, you know, there's a lot of wisdom in economics, too, so I wouldn't… I don't think we should toss it away. We should think of it as Indigenous knowledge, probably.
Um, so what… what is, you know, how do these two things get together? One of the core
words, anyway, I think, is growth.
Traditional economics kind of relies on growth.
As… certainly as one of the answers to, like, do you want to get rid of poverty, how do you get rid of poverty? Well, you grow.
Um, so there's… there's that kind of component. But the other is just kind of, like, economies tend to be…
robust while they're growing, they tend to get very fragile while they're not.
Um, so there's… there's this kind of key brain in there. And living systems are kind of critical. Growth matters a ton to living systems. And so I've just been wondering,
Like, what are the kinds of growth and the perspectives on growth that would inform, kind of, traditional economics in a more of a living systems
way.
And are there, kind of, examples, you know, basically, uh,
metaphors that we can take from biological systems around growth that would inform traditional economics in new ways.
And for, you know, the part of what provoked this was somebody talking about a story of how they had
submitted for their Stanford application decades ago. They had submitted… they had to write a review of the book they'd written.
And the book that she had written was about the history of sourdough.
And how people, like, in the, uh, as they were crossing the country, would keep their sourdough alive, and what it would take to keep your sourdough starter alive.
And how, you know, the women pioneers were keeping the sourdough next to their breasts to keep it warm as they crossed the mountains.
And I was just thinking about, like, the lively… the sourdough being alive, and the growth of sourdough as being a metaphor for something.
So that's as far as I've got, and I need to take it to, um…
pizza, much more… much smarter AI now to try and evaluate it, but growth. What sort of insights can he get from growth?
Yeah, I got… I got an email yesterday from.
a mailing list, the Union of Concerned Scientists. Sending out yet another, you know, last.
urgent warning. Um, and, and… This has been going on for, like, 3, 4 years.
And it's from Oregon, actually, Portland's… I think Portland State, or Oregon State is, uh.
is the hub where now they're consolidating the data, and uh… And, um, you know, explain how we are passing one tipping point after the next.
And it will be ignored, you know, it's just yet another alert that, uh.
people who pay attention to it, people who know what it is, saying, okay, yeah, I know.
And others really dismiss it, like, you know, it has been done for, you know, a really long time.
So the… the… the… what… what is really missing here is a transition to what can you actually do about this?
And because there are lots of things, you know, we can do if we put our mind to it.
But, um, it's just… it just doesn't… doesn't seem to want to work. And of course, what we're doing.
Uh, with our Food with Thought, uh. effort here.
is to engage, you know, the neglected part of the market.
You know, so you have small to medium-sized, uh.
farmers, the… what's called the agriculture of the middle.
Ooh. who can't get into the market.
Um, and… The reason that is important is because.
Food and agriculture is probably the most damaging part of our.
into action with the natural world. Um, destroying, you know, watersheds and soils and biodiversity and… So it's incredibly damaging.
But it has the capacity to turn that. It has the capacity.
Not to recover and to heal, and to regenerate.
Um, and the… in the large companies, you know, whether that's Monsanto, or Nestle, or, you know, everybody in there.
They're working to automate this, they're working to reduce.
Nitrogen by smart technology. climate-smart technology, and uh… hugely capital-intensive.
even going to exclude more? farmers who cannot get into.
that, you know, the investment cost required to. to build, you know, these automations, and it's not really necessary.
You can absolutely, uh, shift. you know, into regenerative practices at scale.
If farmers are being incentivized and paid for. So the, the, the… what, you know, what we would need to know about it, of course, is a farmer who wants to put in a cover crop.
And then put his cash crop in, needs different pieces of equipment to make that work.
Well, they're expensive. Now, so… So how is a small to medium-sized farmer going to shift into.
environmental farming. You know, without having.
the support structure for it. And so what we are arguing as a core point here is.
There are measurements. that, uh, make it possible.
to… to monitor what a farmer is doing, what a farmer has promised to do, so put a contract out there.
And then monitor the outputs of that. So there's already some great examples. For example, in the Mississippi.
But for delta, um… There are groups of farmers.
who have been combined to reduce nitrogen runoff into the Mississippi River.
Which then, of course, runs down into the Gulf of Mexico.
While that's easy to measure, you know, it doesn't take much to… to, uh, to track that. And the incentives have been sufficient enough for those farmers.
who are, um, very conservative and typically not interested.
in experimenting a lot. there is just so much money at stake.
that they are going to do it. And… Uh, and so what's these… what… and there are all kinds of little, like, one-point.
uh… measurements. that can… that have the capacity to shift the entire system.
Because in order to reduce the nitrogen one-off. You have to find other ways to fertilize your crop.
You know, and so, you know, in the most… A basic thing is soil health.
So if you have to increase your soil health, now we're talking about putting a cover crop on it.
You know, maybe doing a no-till, maybe rotating your carp into a different type of crop, maybe a perennial or so.
In order to do this. So all these other things fall into place.
So by building a secondary revenue stream, the farmer now has two crops.
He has his one, his food cup, and then he has an environmental benefit crop.
You know, that comes out that is linked together.
So we're saying this is one. I mean, in every industry.
You know, there are ways where we could. insert ourselves and provide the incentives at scale.
You know, to catch… the environmental deterioration that is, like, so obvious in your face now.
And in the… what… what we are focusing on is the mostly NGOs, nonprofit.
Small and medium-sized farms. So, and the reason for that is that if you combine all of the farmers markets and the CSAs.
You know, and the, uh… the low level, uh.
Uh, uh, output of… of this sector, it's a single digit of total sales.
You know, the last time I checked was, like, 3% of total sales is if you combine all CSAs.
Farmers markets, uh, into, into one… together. So… so the… the… to… to get these farmers into the wholesale market, that's our objective, to assist.
bundling and aggregating small farmers. So they can participate in wholesale markets.
So I was just… I was just, uh, wrote another newsletter. I mean, I was just thinking about… how easy it would be.
You know, to really make an impact, and how stubbornly resistant.
the market is to… to engage in change.
One small thing and a bigger thing. The small thing is, um,
I'm wearing a t-shirt. It's a beautiful day in this neighborhood.
Because April gave a talk in Pittsburgh, and after the talk, she went and visited the Mr. Rogers Museum.
In Pittsburgh. And Mr. Rogers has a super interesting history, uh, but Mr. Rogers played a really important role in April's childhood.
Um… because she had a difficult relationship with her mom, and Mr. Rogers was telling her that she was okay just the way she is.
and was one of the few entities that was doing that for her back in the day, and I didn't… I didn't realize how special that was.
Until we had talked about it some years back.
And uh… so it was lovely that she got to visit the museum, and she came back with a road sign.
Uh, that says this is a kindness zone, and it looks exactly like a street sign.
That, you know, you would put in a neighborhood,
And we're gonna put it up on the wall here, so that's kind of cool. So that's tiny.
then, uh, separately,
I've been reading Dan Brown's latest Pock Boiler, The Secret of Secrets.
And there'll be a tiny plot spoiler in what I say now, so if you really, really, really want to read,
Um, mayor-written book, because Brown is not Faulkner,
Uh, but one thing I love about Brown is, from the Da Vinci Code,
I picked up in, you know, two-thirds of the way through the book, he has this thesis about the marginalization of the Divine Feminine.
And I think I've told this story here before, but I love that thesis, and I have read
Leonard Schne's book, The Alphabet vs. the Goddess, within a couple months of The Da Vinci Code, and it has the same thesis,
In an academic work, from a completely different perspective,
And I had been chasing the word consumer for already a couple decades then,
And I had gotten to the same place myself, thinking about yin and yang and a bunch of other stuff, all of which is a longer story.
But all those three stories kind of clicked in my head in a really wonderful way, and I'm like, oh,
And now I start reading Dan Brown, and one of the major plot points of The Secret of Secrets
is, um, non-local consciousness.
Uh, and that snapped together with what Sunil Malhotra, a friend of OGM's, had said to me, I don't know, a year and a half ago,
He basically said, hey, and I mentioned it on an OGM call somewhere,
Uh, he said, hey, Jerry, what if consciousness isn't a thing that is… that materializes out of neurons in our heads when we have some kind of funny critical mass of neurons and activity? But what if consciousness is the background radiation
of the universe, and we occupy it.
we've sort of… we snap in… we… we…
tune into it, like a radio station,
Uh, and then when we die, we sort of leave it, or meld back into it, something like that. And that really sort of…
change the way I look at things, and then by reading Dan Brown, I realized I had already put non-local consciousness in my brain from a completely different
bit of research, and that it was the same… same general idea, that consciousness is, in fact, not a materialistic phenomenon of something that's happening in the chemistry,
in our heads, but is in fact a much broader thing.
a thing I like, which gets you into woo-woo noetic science territory, which I'm beginning to respect a lot more.
That… and so one of the interesting things in the plot point is, so Tuesday night, I stopped someplace and have a meal, and
keep reading in the book, and I get to the point where they talk about GABA, the basically inhibitor or receptor in our heads,
GABA is, uh… gamma-aminobutyric acid, GABA, or GABA.
And it appears to be the primary inhibitor
in our neural system,
Which means that high levels of GABA
keep us from being overwhelmed by the world's stimuli.
And when you have low GABA, you're suddenly, like, you take in a whole lot more, and apparently,
Um, one of the mechanisms of epilepsy
is a precipitous drop in GABA, which then causes your brain to be overwhelmed, and you go into seizure.
Epileptics, when they come back out of a grand mal seizure, have moments of bliss, of like, you know, connection with the infinite.
Um, and then they sort of reboot their brains back into being online with the usual constraints and filters on and everything else.
Uh, and then she's, uh, uh…
the protagonist's other half, who's part of the plot, says, you know, have you ever done, like, hallucinogens?
They seem to reduce your GABA.
levels, so that you can perceive what's always happening around you. It's not… it's not that they generate a hallucination in your head, it's that they lower your filters so that you can see what's going on around you.
Which was all very funny because
yesterday afternoon, um, I had my first psilocybin journey ever, which, in fact, for me, is my first trip ever. I've never done drugs.
And a friend of mine in the neighborhood posted me at his place. It was incredibly safe and lovely. He's completely trustworthy, just it was great.
And I had a phenomenal experience. I… I felt connected to, like, the mycelial
Networks of the world. He had, uh, grown the shrooms himself. You can order kits, et cetera, et cetera. It works fine. He had tested it on himself.
So he knew it was going to be good. Uh, and…
it was really transformative. I had an incredible experience. And I'm still processing it,
I tried during the experience to leave myself little dorms or candles or gateways to step back into the experience without doing the whole shroom thing. I don't know if that's going to work.
Um, but I had… I had a…
I have many different things happened. I felt like I was everything all at once-ish.
Um, I now understand special effects, uh, you know, in movies a lot better, because they're basically just, like, copying what happens to you when you see everything.
And, uh, trying to, you know,
map that into graphics and visuals.
Uh, but, uh, you know, the overwhelm you feel
in the moment is not easily replicable in a movie theater when you're sitting, staring at a screen far away, and you know that there's no immediate consequences to you.
Anyway, I feel like I'm transformed a bit, I don't know how.
But, uh, it was thrilling.
that, and complete.
Well, Jerry, I'll step up and, uh… I had 1,700 different ways to go this week, but I'll start with where you left off.
It is gratifying to know that I am not the only person.
from the West Coast, who has never done a trip of any type.
I, uh, don't even… haven't even smoked a cigarette, which is… goes to show you how I… I did a total bypass past adolescence.
Uh, when I joined the Clinton administration in January of 20… uh, January 1993.
We all had to get security clearances, and in my case, at a pretty high level.
And, of course, they have the… people interviewing you, and because it was the Clinton administration, and we had a whole bunch of people in their late 20s and early 30s, the first question was, okay, how often have you done drugs, and are you still doing them?
And I said, well, no, I've never done drugs.
And they just refuse to believe this, because it not only were, you know, every other person they'd interviewed had done drugs in college, and several of them were doing drugs.
Currently, and actually had to go on some kind of, you know, withdrawal plan, and had to be.
tested every couple weeks to make sure they were on it.
I didn't know how much they didn't believe me until I had two random drug tests in the next 10 days.
But apparently, you know, they've chose to believe me, or maybe they just talked to somebody else who had worked with me when I was working with Gore.
in the Senate, and they were assured that, yeah, Mike Nelson, if there's anybody in the Clinton administration who hasn't done drugs, it's Mike Nelson.
But anyway, I am… gonna riff on what you said about avoiding overstimulation, because the topic I was going to lay out there.
is how I am feeling completely. Absolutely. Intellectually, politically.
overstimulated. Um, this is partly because I spent Saturday at TEDx Mid-Atlantic.
And we had some very powerful talks by everyone from Joe Trippi to Michael McFaul, our former ambassador to Russia.
to a rapper in DC who has sort of reinvented the business model.
he… he signed up with a major studio, he was doing cool stuff with other cool rappers.
And he was going all over the country. And he said, forget this. And he started front porch. And he just… goes out on his front porch, and he gets guests to come by, and they do things, and the neighborhood loves it.
And, uh, not as lucrative. But a lot less exhausting.
So, just one example of some of the wild ideas that came out. But I've also just been overstimulated by the politics of what's happened in the last 3 days.
Uh, here in Virginia, of course, we've gotten a lot more political advertising than most.
Uh, you've all seen that one of my favorite.
former congresspeople. Abigail Spanberger got elected, and we've known her personally for about 6 years, and she's very close with one of our best friends. Uh, so we're just delighted that a moral.
decent, smart. kind person could… and a young person.
become our new governor. Virginia's blessed. We have a… Uh, term limit system, you only get to be governor for one.
4-year term, and as a result, there's a lot of focus on building.
talent, and being sure there's several choices. Um… But we won the governorship, lieutenant governor, and Attorney General, which is going to be incredibly important.
Given all the lawsuits that we're going to have to file.
against the Trump administration. But most importantly, we went from having a one-person majority for the Democrats in the legislature.
to having a 14. seat.
Majority. So it's, you know, like. 52% to… 61%, something like that?
Uh, and around the country, we had other. very impressive landslide victories. So, it's clear that people are fed up with what Mr. Trump has been doing.
In some cases, they're also saying they're fed up with what the Democrats are doing, but they know that the Democrats are.
unable to get organized, and therefore unable to do as much damage as Trump and his minions.
Um. I'm also tracking a lot of technology developments around the world.
And that's, again, overstimulating. There's just too much going on.
The Chinese are… pushing forward a digital identity system.
Which they're going to try to get other… countries, or at least.
multinationals to use. Um… Clearly, that's going to have surveillance built in, so you're not going to be able to go anonymously from service to service on the internet.
Uh, the Internet Engineering Task Force was meeting. This week, and one of the most lively debates was about.
a new authentication system for. um, digital transactions. And also.
a tool that would allow a website. to prevent people from coming and scraping all the content on the website.
And this led to a lot of interest and discussions about, you know, well.
Can McDonald's use this to make sure that Burger King can't go on its website and find out what its prices are, or what its sales are by… by store? I mean, it's really… it's… it's a good thing.
Because you do have these companies, these bots, that are scraping content and looking for.
a stray social security number, then they're just putting a huge demand on all these websites, including non-profit ones.
So, but how do you stop a bad person from abusing the openness of the internet?
While allowing a researcher. to span, uh.
100,000 websites, and go search through. terabytes of data.
Tough, tough, tough issues, and we're… we're having all these… discussions, but they're all kind of below the radar, because we're all fixated on whether AI will.
destroy world civilization. So, I've been overstimulated, I don't know if I've stimulated you.
But, um, uh, I am intrigued by your… experience, and uh… this promise of… finding a way to turn off the brain a little bit.
Um, I usually do that by going for long bike rides, which is my next, uh.
my next thing, and I… I have to say.
We have had more than a week of spectacular weather. It is peak, peak, peak fall foliage here in Washington.
Uh, and I'm trying to enjoy that. being semi-retired, I can enjoy that.
But, yeah, there's just… there's so much going on.
And I'd, uh, urge you to check out the Carnegie Endowment website.
the… some of the sessions that we've had over the last two weeks on everything from.
information ecology. A book by one of my new co- by one of my colleagues.
to a session I just listened to on the radical right.
Um, and the New World Order. I mean, it's just… A lot of big thinking going on, a lot of change happening, which, of course.
could mean that we could have. an improvement!
Nelson's Law of Life is that nothing. improves unless it changes.
Murphy's corollary to Nelson's Law is that not every change is an improvement.
But I'm gonna try to help push people in the direction of improvement.
Thank you. Long, long, uh, somewhat optimistic. Um, screed.
I really don't know what to say after all your tickings.
Because I have just been writing my novel. researching about how people seek certainty.
Um, attending a workshop? to which now I have a session, so I will have to leave early.
In which I am observing Akira Sync. If people doesn't have curiosity, even if they are adults.
willingly, uh… engaged in a workshop.
they say they are interested in learning something. But in the end, when… in the community side, I post, uh… Some questions, or some things to trigger conversations?
Nobody responds. Anas… A former, uh.
what's the name? Because sometimes. I… I have been designing courses for.
companies and everything, so… For me, it's incredible how.
Curiosity is dropping in our gold. So this is one of the things I'm also, like, taking notes about and trying to understand.
But I'm not as engaged as you are in all those great things and experiences.
So that's my little check-in.
Can I… can I use my check-in to answer Victoria?
Since I didn't check in. I can't… okay.
No. Although Victoria's gonna drop off the call at the top of the hour, so she won't hear you if you do it later, so yes.
Yeah.
Okay, thank you for rethinking. I would love to answer your question about how I approach certainty.
If you're interested. Because I've been… I'm really clear on how I do it.
I think of every story. as being… there's two truths and a lie in it.
So I'm always… that helps me to keep an open mind, and I'm always trying to figure out which is the lie.
So it's a constant process of, well, it could be that, or it could be this.
And that's how I keep going every step of the way.
Thanks, Stacey.
So I just wanted to share that.
We now return to our regular program, which is already in progress.
And we have a couple people who haven't checked in yet.
So I'll go next. Um… So this is sort of… Zooming way, way, way, way, way in.
and zooming way, way, way out at the same time.
So, at the tender age of 69, as an ADD person, my executive function is finally fully.
matured. And… With that, um, I have found a… I mean, huge expansion of capacity capability.
to grapple with things and play with things, and do things, and use things.
Um, that, you know. were opaque and impenetrable and unusable before.
Um. So, um, one of the phenomena of my daily reality up until about a week ago was… Um, 4 to 5 browser windows with 3 monitors.
Uh, each one with 45 to 50 tabs. And, um, because on one hand.
Um, that was my way of… having things up.
That I didn't want to lose. Of course, when you have 250 tabs.
that you can't see because they're Microsoft, probably small, you can't differentiate. It's not as if you can find anything that way either, but emotionally.
Um, they're there. They exist. And… So, approaching your computer first thing in the morning with that.
was always not fun. It was always like this overwhelming crap.
Like, what do I do now? And, um… And I was thinking about, you know.
browser functionalities. And I saw something that sort of flashed that I hadn't really.
I knew the capability had to be in there, but I didn't know.
what it was called, or where to find it, and… Then, I noticed in a menu.
Something called… Tab Groups.
And it was like… Okay, I think… I think, um, this is my path to… emancipation, to tab emancipation.
And, um, and because of newly vested executive function, I was able to, like.
open it up and learn it and master it very, very quickly, and I was able to.
take those 250 tabs and… sort and bucket them into groups, and I was able to.
Then close those groups, and then I was able to close the browser windows of those groups.
And freed up my machine's resources, and all of a sudden, like, my computer.
My poor little laptop that could, that I was asking.
you know, mini computer demands on. was able to function again. And, like, things started to flow, and I could close all that stuff, and only have the one or two tab groups.
up that were relevant in that moment to actually do work and not be in overwhelm.
This is life-changing. for someone like me…
And… pulling way, way, way, way, way out.
Um. It goes under the heading in my… you know, working reality of… the… the most meaningful questions.
for me, in terms of what am I… devoting my attention to what am I engaging with and why?
is, uh… Um… Based on the belief that every human being.
has value to add and contribute.
And… the only meaningful operative question, inquiry.
If you buy that. is… What do each one of those individuals need in order to.
be enabled to contribute.
And then the third and closing inquiry is. Based on that… how do we meet everyone's needs?
And pretty much. everything else.
If it is not germane to… those inquiries is… substantially irrelevant.
So that's the zooming out. So, I found what I needed.
in tab groups? It unleashed a flood tide of capacity.
of organizing, of… moving into action.
of unleashing the hounds in all sorts of ways, and now I'm going to close with.
the immediate nexus that OGM represents in my world.
So, what's starting to happen is I'm touching a bunch of projects that.
A lot of you are familiar with, because they're.
projects of OGM people, or people that have dipped in and out of here.
Um, and… Um, they're starting… to cross-connect.
Um, via individuals and conversations. They're starting to coalesce, where.
you know, two completely independent projects have managed to connect, and all of a sudden, they're talking.
And I have awareness of the one, and I have awareness of the other, and I have awareness of how they complement.
And fit into a larger context. And, um… I'd say 60% of them… there's a list of about 12.
60% of them all have OGM in common. So, Jerry, a half tip.
Um, for… being, you know, the energetic center of gravity.
out of which a lot of these things, for me.
Uh, we're connected with and met, and… now coalesceable.
in some fashion that I have yet to… No completely, but that I'm working on. So, anyway, with that, I'm complete.
Rick, I don't know if you're just listening in, or if you want to step in.
Um…
But I don't want to hold up our transition to conversation.
So I'm gonna pause a moment.
Am I missing anybody else? Did somebody else not throw?
We're all set, good. Um, there's…
Yeah, I'll pass, Jerry. Go ahead.
Okay, thanks, Rick.
We are now officially in conversation mode.
Excellent. Mike took that cue instantaneously.
And put the Carnegie calendar onto the chat, which I was going to ask you to do, so fabulous, thank you so much.
And, uh, anybody… we've got, like, five, uh, four hands up immediately. Okay, so Mike, your first.
Well, I not only acted immediately, I jumped the gun.
with my hand, but uh… one of the issues I didn't raise, and this is.
Weighing on… weighing on me a great deal. Um… our library at Carnegie gets the Wall Street Journal.
I used to subscribe to it. Um… but the fact that it's owned by Murdoch makes it morally ambiguous to… pay, uh, support his profits.
But I do like to support the journalists, and I do try to publicize the great articles that I read.
Uh, from the hard copy that we have at our library.
every day for the last 3 weeks, there's been at least one article along the lines of.
Oh my god, it's an AI bubble! And different versions on why it is.
Uh, it's been clear to me for at least 2 years that we're on this track. It's so reminiscent of.
what happened with, uh, Time Warner being bought by AOL.
I mean, OpenAI is the AOL of our day.
Has a completely overinflated. stock price, and… Altman's doing exactly the right thing and using it to buy all sorts of.
do all sorts of deals. Which are going to not look very good in a year or two.
But… this bubble is… going to deflate, either.
In a few weeks, or in a few years, it's clear we're not going to maintain the kind of growth we've seen from NVIDIA.
And some of these other companies. Um, and the questions I have for anybody here who has.
the courage to give financial advice. Is it going to drag down just the AI-related companies?
Or is it going to drag down the entire tech sector?
Or is it gonna drag down the entire market? In one of the articles in the Wall Street Journal was.
the U.S. Economy is now AI. made the point that all of the growth that we've seen in more than.
12 months. is because of all the investment that's going into these data centers. I mean, if you just take that out.
the economy's been flat. And Trump is doing everything he can to make it go down. Um, so my question… Because I was very lucky, I.
was employee number 130. At Cloudflare, before it went IPO.
a good chunk of my retirement portfolio is still in Cloudflare stock.
And other parts of my portfolio are in. IBM stock. And other tech companies.
Because I tend to invest in what I know.
So I'm just curious, I mean, how many of you are thinking of.
pulling out the profits. From your tech investments.
That's an easy question. And if you are, what in the hell do you put the… Proceeds into. I mean, I… I just… I have no clue what a good strategy here is. I mean, the reason…
Gold is up by a factor of 3, as a lot of other people are confused, too, when they figure, well, okay, I'll put it in something that will somehow have value someday.
We've never… I don't… I don't remember a discussion like this, and maybe that's because people don't like to talk finances, and… people have… or because people have very good financial advisors.
I have a very good financial advisor, but… you know, he… and he's got, you know, some suggestions, but I'm just curious how many of you are… thinking of strategies for the upcoming bubble.
Thanks, Mike. And we're not a financially-oriented group, or that necessarily expert in this. There's probably different depths of expertise in the group on that.
But it might make a good topic for a call, like, is there a bubble? What is the bubble?
And… I haven't had a chance to read all the too many articles about, oh my god, there's a bubble.
A couple of them are trying to unpack
There could be several different bubbles going on, and here's how they
fit and relate, which I find really fascinating, because
I think there's clearly a bubble in a piece of it. There's, like, this frenzy to do AGI.
But there's other parts that are not so bubbly, and I don't know, it's a really good, juicy, complex issue.
And I haven't even addressed the, you know, do you divest all tech
The problem with previous bubbles is
If you heated the first warnings of, oh my god, we're in a bubble, you would miss the actual big run-up.
Um, and you would sell too early, and then if you missed the fall, because usually it's the first couple people who get off the merry-go-round who profit a lot, then you lose everything. So timing is everything in these things.
And it's a little nutty, so…
Yeah, well, this was a… this was meant to be a two-minute discussion.
Yeah.
And it really is kind of, you know, put your hand up if you think there is a bubble.
And then put your other hand up if you're gonna try to.
Yeah.
dramatically reduce your exposure in the tech… not dramatically, but significantly reduce your exposure in the tech sector.
Let's do that.
And if you have a one-sentence answer to where would you put your money, you can put that in the chat.
Let's do that. Raise your hand if you think there's a bubble.
I think there's 3 bubbles. There's one in cloud computing, one in AI chips, and then.
one in cryptocurrency, which is… That's a whole other topic.
cool. And then raise your hand if you're seriously thinking about disinvesting, changing your investment strategy.
Cool, that's… that's right.
That's…
Oh, okay, three and a half. That's… that's… thank you, that's very helpful for… reducing my anxiety a little bit.
And it's a great question, Mike, thank you.
And is pork bellies the place I should put all my money?
Thanks.
No, try rye Coins. I put a Wikipedia link in the chat, it's the…
The big stones they used to use, uh, as currency. I think you need to find one of those and, like, roll it around the living room as your asset.
That could well be.
plastics, it's the future.
I thought that was the island of Yap.
Yeah.
Oh, wait.
That… that is the island of the yacht.
There's… there's also… There's also the guy, Mike, behind the big short in the real estate crash.
who has a fund, who is, uh, set up to short.
The tech sector. Like, just, if you want to go straight Contra.
Yep.
Um, like, he'd be happy to take your money.
Is it Michael Burry, or…? Yeah.
That is some shit, wow. Okay, so he's…
Okay. Yeah. Michael Burry, and if you haven't seen… If you haven't seen the interview.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. He's back!
Wow!
If you haven't seen the interview with the CEO of Palantir.
Karp was interviewed about the fact that Burry had shorted Palantir.
A lot. he looked panicked. He's like, oh, this is really bad. Oh, this is not fair, oh!
and NVIDIA.
I've got…
And his stock price went down 12%, so… Sorry.
Deer… deer in the headlights.
So I… so… so I've got a New Yorker article, uh, that's titled, Michael Burry, Real-Life Market Genius from the Big Short.
thinks another financial crisis is looming, dated,
2016.
So he would have missed… he would have missed a decade of run-up.
And I don't know when you run out of money from shorting, but you do at some point.
Yep.
Um, that was part of the problem with the big short. And by the way, the Big Short movie and book are among my favorite
bits of media like that. They're just so insightful.
Uh, Gil… Gil, please.
Yep.
And the guy who wrote the big short has done a series of books of similar depth and insight, really terrific. Michael somebody?
Michael Lewis.
Listen, Michael, this lives here in Berkeley.
Michael Lewis is brilliant. He did Moneyball as well.
Nicholous?
Um, Moneyball and a bunch of things, yeah, brilliant, brilliant guy.
Aww.
But I just first want to say, what a fine bunch of humans you all are. It's been a fascinating call just listening to the quick summaries from everybody.
Um, couple things, um…
Mike, I think I heard you say that when to get out is obvious, and obviously it's not obvious.
Uh, for the reason that Jerry said, because bubbles and FOMO are the kind of similar phenomenon.
Oh, I didn't say that.
You know, I mean, how can tech go higher, but you can't miss out on it going higher? Same with gold, same with Bitcoin. There's this weird psychological thing in there.
Um, um…
Golly, a couple of pieces here I want to tie together.
Um,
I've mentioned Ben Hunt before from Epsilon Theory. He's now launched a new site called Panoptica.ai, which I encourage people to take a look at.
Um, Ben and his partner, Rusty Gwynn have been tracking narratives globally. They've built AIs that scan, I don't know, 8… Alex, this is to your point, about media scans.
Scanning 8,000 sites around the world on a regular basis, and distilling the trends of what's being talked about. So they have multicolored, complex graphs showing the rise and fall.
of conversations about things like bubbles, or bubbles in this or that, recession, interest rates, and so forth. It's a fascinating meta-view.
on the stories to power the world. Ben also runs an asset management company called Second Foundation Partners. He is a confessed longtime short.
shorted the real estate bubble back in 2008, and uh… so, you know, can somebody be a short for a long time? Maybe so.
The Panoptica site also has got a wealth of articles and analysis and so forth, really fascinating stuff, much of it very OGM-y, so…
Have a look at that. Um, on the, um…
On the filters in the new scan, just to note that not just Panoptica, but our very own Marshall Kirkpatrick has been building a system that does that, focused around sustainability and regeneration.
Uh, doing scans of trends, building products for companies around that, some very interesting stuff in the workbench there.
Um, Marshall's rarely on these calls, but he's up to some interesting stuff.
on that. And, um…
The other thing I want to say about AI is that I was, uh, spent Tuesday at Capgemini, the French, uh,
consultancy have been working with them on their net positive.
Excuse me, net positive projects, which the company appears to have made a major commitment to.
We've just gone through the second year.
of training each year, like a cohort of 100 Hispanic-orient… Hispanic background, um, managers and executives in sustainability and net positive. Fascinating process.
Um, um, um…
planting seeds in…
Hundreds of companies about that.
But Tuesday, we had a presentation from a guy named Andres Sjoborn,
Uh, who was, I think, their lead, or one of their leads on AI, and it was a fascinating hour-long overview.
of the field, and how he sees it, and the kind of integrations that companies are doing.
Uh, in applications of AI. I've asked him for the slides, I don't know if they're publicly available. If I do get them, I'll share them here.
Um, but might be somebody to track. And, um…
One other thing here, um, two other things here. Um, David, uh, really intrigued to hear your discussion about growth and where… and your evolution around the conversation that you're in.
You and I have intersected on a little bit of, and I'd love to talk with you more about that.
Um, because I think as we go into… when we look at the biological roots of the world that we live in,
Um…
A lot of them are human stories don't hold up very well.
I'll just leave it at that for now and talk more about that another time.
Even… well, I'll say one other thing. Even, like, our current…
widespread irateness about what we call corruption.
Which maybe is not that different from predator-prey relationships and parasite relationships, and the things that living systems do.
Just as kind of part of the game.
You know, there's a striving for advantage, and there's a countervailing.
Opposition to the advantage, and that may just be what it is. And so, not to say we shouldn't resist corruption,
But we maybe should not be quite as surprised.
and outraged, and hopeful of a world without it.
Um, given that. And the other thing I just wanted to comment on, from the top of the call, Scott, I was fascinated by what you talked about.
Um, about the, um, you know, Kevin McLeod and being the most widespread is… do we lose Scott?
Oh gosh, too bad.
Okay.
No, Scott's still on the call. He's muted and no video, but I think he's listening.
He's hidden… I'm not seeing the video, okay.
Yep.
So, um, um…
It just echoed for me the line from whoever it was, somebody here knows about it's amazing what you can get done if you're not concerned with getting credit for it.
Yep.
And so I was thinking about… about…
Kevin McCloud and Scott and Scott's deck and other decks that I've seen other people do, and the thought about, you know, revolutionary Legos.
like, building… building the pieces of the puzzle and just…
throwing them out there in a way where they self-propagate, like, apparently, Kevin McLeod's been able to do.
Rather than trying to build complete strategies, but to feed the development of multiple strategies around the world. It's just an intriguing idea.
Um, that resonated very powerfully from what Scott said. So, Scott, thank you for that.
And I'll be chewing on that for a while, I'm complete.
Thank you. There's a bunch of stuff. Pass, please.
Yeah, I mean, it's also AI-related, but I'm… I've been running into.
a really interesting phenomena, where. If every part of the economy is working to integrate AI into their flow.
But when you are talking with NGOs, and uh… uh, you know, particularly in my food and agriculture space.
Okay, it's almost an emotional rejection of wanting to deal with AI.
And the reasons given is it uses too much electricity, is the first thing you hear, it uses water.
Um, but there is the… there has been… and I'm now thinking.
you know, how can something like this penetrate so effectively into an entire sector?
Yeah, because the, the, uh… these opinions are being held.
pretty universally, and it disempowers non-profit groups. from engaging with this technology.
Which is so powerful, you know? I mean, I can do a search, I mean, uh, David just, uh… asked a question about the Bill Gates Foundation. It took me, like, 5 seconds to find this.
Not because my AI is customized into. into these particular topics.
So we now have a relationship with the Schumacher Institute and George Pooh.
is taking it on. to work with the open food, uh, the open global food system. It's a non-profit group, operates in 20 countries.
And they're working with food hubs now and they're in this small CSA farmer's markets.
type of environment, and we are going to track them into the AI world.
Um, and there's two objectives. One is to get them into wholesale markets.
And the other one is to get farmers paid.
for environmental services. You know, and I already know it can be done. I mean, I've done the basic research.
with the AI to figure this out. And here in Oregon, the Oregon… community foundation, which is a $20 billion foundation.
has also agreed to work with me, and so I have a meeting next week where.
the director, uh, you know, wants to… set up a conversation with a catering organization, the hospital co-op.
catering director, and see how could we do this. And so it's just to… to make this, you know, incredible technology available.
You know, to support these industries. And to build a bridge. I mean, you really have to see yourself as a translation service.
You know, because all the knowledge is already out there.
But to track these groups in. And I must say, the effectiveness.
with which NGOs have been neutralized from using AI and working with it.
It's just stunning. You know, I don't know who came up with this idea.
of, uh, of, uh, emphasizing this discussion around, uh.
Don't use it, it's bad for the environment. Uh, but it sure worked, and it's taking… a lot of effort to overcome that rejection.
Thanks, Klaus. Uh, Rick, please.
Uh, maybe bounce off of that, because I've had conversations with academics who have this anti-AI mindset.
Um, for the environmental, et cetera, et cetera reasons, and I just had one with a colleague of mine who's a…
a professor of global studies at UNC.
about this very issue. He talked about that last… our last breakfast coffee meeting.
Um, and one of the things I'm… I'm…
I'm absolutely fascinated with, and I'm trying to develop my own skills.
is the whole notion of co-intelligence.
Not just from an individual level, but from a collective perspective, which, you know, touches on Klaus's point.
Because what you're able to do and achieve
is mind-blowing. I'm just blown away by what you can do.
Um, but what I've been working on for some time, and I've dropped it here and there in different places,
is trying… and I mentioned this phrase before, and I remember Mike saying, keep it simple.
Uh, about, uh, HAN, which is…
you know, humanist-guided,
AI-enabled.
Emancipatory neolarning. And I've made some little vignettes
explaining that, what Hen means.
And, you know, we live in this incredible culture of indoctrination.
And it's so pervasive.
that, uh, the point that you put in your little chat there, Mike, about curiosity, I mean, to me,
Curiosity is the most fundamental skill
An inquiry skills.
that we need to have to be able to, um…
mitigate against the pervasive forces of neoliberalism, reductionist,
indoctrination Yard.
And I'll just share something, which is…
Still work in progress, um, and it's about how to create
emancipatory learning communities, and developing learning assets
that stimulates people's curiosities and inquiries to ask even better questions and more complex questions.
or compound questions, I should say.
And that's the beauty about AI, is that you can… I mean, it, you know…
We have a reductionist mindset to questioning, and we frame it, and we… whatever, well…
In a compound philosophical question, you can put everything in the kitchen sink in there and see what comes out, and then you can go back and see patterns that you would
or even come across a new concept you've never heard of before, and we've all done that sort of stuff.
And the question is, how can we create
Um, you know, an environment where people can learn how to become
open-minded, true-seeking, virtuous freethinkers, so that we can mitigate against all the propaganda that we're
bombarded with on a regular basis. Anyway, I'll share something in the chat.
For those who are curious about it. It's still a work in progress, and I still feel like
I've got some ways to go in terms of how to create learning communities around this.
Which are, um…
designed to be more, uh, group-centered.
And based on principles of sociocracy and whatever. So I'll put it in the chat, so…
Um, I just think the opportunities for co-intelligence is just…
You know, CloudSight, I concur with you.
Let's up our skills. How can we… how can we learn from each other more effectively about how to do that, so…
Thanks.
Thanks, Rick. Uh, Alex.
Right, Mike, I'll make it easy for you, for your investment conundrum.
And it goes like this. I'm the world's worst.
possible investor. I have always. sold when I should have bought, and… bought what I should have sold.
So, a few years back, and quite a few years back, I made the really great decision to keep 40% of my money in cash.
pure cash, because obviously the market's gonna crash. And it's still there. And I haven't yet bought into the market.
But as soon as I'm tempted and I buy the market.
I will actually let all of you know that I've done it, because that is a time to get out of it.
But so far, I have not done that.
But the critical question is, is it… cash in dollars, or cash in Swiss francs?
It's cash… it's cash that's losing its value wherever you are.
Except… except if you'd put it in Swiss francs, we were just in Switzerland.
Except, yes, no, I didn't put it there. I didn't put it there.
Yeah. Well, thank you, Alex. This is what… the reason I ask is I am in the same category you are. I have… You know, I have sold… sold shares that, you know, went on to increase in value by a factor of 6.
Yeah. As if your nightmare stories behind that, but so… so that was… I just wanted to point that out.
The other thing is, Pete, I'm interested in the sheath methodology.
I'd love to get in touch with you. And one more, someone said something… oh, and Doug, a long time ago, a year ago, we spoke about a game you wanted?
Do you remember that conversation? Let's touch… let's get together, because… I can show you how to do it yourself.
Given all these AI things that we've spoken about.
You won't even have to… you don't even need me, just… I just need to show you.
But Pete Cannon, everybody can, really. So that's it. Thank you.
Um, thank you much, Pete.
Real quick, I put some of it in the chat, and I feel like I didn't express it very well, but…
Mike, your question is really interesting, um, about whether we're in a bubble. I think we've been in a bubble since about the PC era, more or less. I don't… it's one big tech bubble inflation thing going on.
It goes up and down, but the whole thing is going big and changing the world, and changing us.
Um, AI feels like some kind of endgame.
Um, either it's gonna usher in, you know, amazing productivity and social justice, and everything's gonna be wonderful, or…
The whole thing's gonna crash hard, because we've turned all… all matter into GPUs, or something, right? I think what's really going to happen is some weird thing in the middle,
But it feels…
it's hard to say this out loud to professional people who care, but it feels like we're kind of
post, you know, what do I do with the market? Do I do cash? Do I do gold? Do I do Bitcoin? You know, all of that.
All of that seems like the wrong questions at this point. So, when we said, are we in a bubble, and I go like this, it's like,
We're… we're past…
where we've ever even thought about bubbles, where they go. You know, it's… we're in weird territory here.
So, I think that's kind of what to… what to discuss.
We're sort of in too big to fail territory, and I've seen a couple articles there, too.
Which is like, this has eaten so much of the economy that…
This is called the government put, or something like that.
Where you get to a scale where you can just keep
Plowing ahead confidently because the government's gonna backstop you somehow.
And you'll wind up okay.
And now… and now we put AI instead of, you know, AI is going to backstop you. Will it? Won't it?
Um, uh, maybe that will be great, but we won't be able to eat, because, as Klaus has told us, you know, um, we're… we're
we need to figure out fast how to apply AI to actually growing things and delivering food.
And making soil regenerative, and all that stuff. So, it's a weird place.
Absolutely. Um, thank you.
Gil, you may have the last word. Actually, no, Doug's gonna have the last word, so go ahead, Gil.
Well, let me try to be fast so there's room for Doug. So, um…
Golly, I had a thing to say, but Pete, what you just said, it's not like we need AI to figure out how to grow food regeneratively, we actually know how to do that.
And many of our problems are not technology problems, they're social organization and ownership problems.
Um, but that's a conversation for another time.
Um…
AI and bubbles, I mean, it's not one big bubble, it's a series of bubbles. Some of them have stabilized, some of them have not.
Um, the backstopping, uh, you know, in 2008, the government bailed out some of the banks and not others.
Um, this is the whole too-big-to-fail game, and we were in another one of those now.
Jerry, to your point, the numbers I hear from Ben Hunt are that, um…
The tech sector, which is about 5% of GDP,
is now pouring more money into the economy than the consumer sector, which is about 30% of the GDP.
And that's the only thing keeping the economy afloat at this point.
And so, yeah, will something…
And masking the effects of tariffs, or whatever else might be happening is totally swamping all that other stuff.
For the moment, and so… and so that's a… that's, you know, somebody's on a pump.
Yeah.
Pumping that bubble to keep that afloat. There's that.
Um, um, um…
On the data center, um…
footprint question, which you've talked about a bunch before.
Uh, it's not just turning AI to solve the problems of agriculture, we're turning AI to design the data centers of the future, and it turns out that Microsoft has been doing that over the last
Eight years or so. There's a book out just now by Joanne Garvin called, um, Innovation at Microsoft. She led the Data Center of the Future project.
And they've designed data centers that are net-zero energy and net-zero water.
Are they building them? Doesn't seem to be, and I don't know if anybody is yet, but at least there's that as a theoretical possibility.
Not just for data centers, but potentially for everything, if we chose to go that way.
But again, it's not, can we do it technically, it's will we do it?
politically, economically, financially, and so forth.
Um, last, back to Mike's question about where do I move the money if I'm taking it out of Tech and Golden Bitcoin and so forth?
Uh, my financial advisor and just about every smart financial… well, who I'm calling a smart financial advisor, if I've spoken to,
says, find your asset allocation strategy and stay there.
And I periodically go back to my guy and say, well, like, shouldn't we be moving some money here? He says, no. No. Just…
Allocate and stay there and rebalance periodically, and that's the way that you move tech profits into other sectors.
The one place where I'm disagreeing with him, I think, is that, um…
Um, I think we should be much more offshore.
than we are now. Um, you know, diversify out of the United States into international much more than we are now, just because of the instability of here.
So that's, you know, that's what I'm thinking about it.
We've had this group's got nothing to say.
I just… I just drove Mike off the screen by saying that, oh my god.
There is.
No, no, no, uh, Doug, your hand is down, but that might have been accidental.
I… I just… I just wanted to throw in… And this is empirical.
with the rate at which… Energy, technology, battery technology.
Quantum computing and the rest are. progressing.
these massive billion-dollar data center. investments… are obsolete in 18 months.
How does it make sense? like, just on a intuitive, logical level.
It doesn't make sense. it's gotta blow up.
You know, when it's too good to be true, it just doesn't… it defies reality.
And when… the biggest players in the world are.
canning $30,000, $40,000, 50,000 people. to divert resource to constructing data centers.
That's the end. That's not the beginning of the end. That's not a bubble.
That's the end of whatever this has been. It's sort of reached its insane.
logical conclusion. as a… as a capitalist.
But we only need $7 trillion, and we can push right through that little eye of the needle and get into the singularity. Don't you want that?
you know, train run amok. So…
So… so, yeah, I don't… I don't know what's after that, but I do know what's ending.
Thank God. Like, it needed to go away.
we need to do us differently and better if we're not going to go extinct.
this conversation… this conversation does not want to go extinct either. Go ahead, Alex.
Jerry, can I just come… Sorry, Doug mentioned a couple of things, it was really interesting.
So, I was… in the throes of the, um… blockchain… temperature 2015 or thereabouts. Nvidia shares skyrocketed because they were making the cars that were being used by the… the people that were mining Bitcoin and all the good things.
And the prices went up. But what actually happened, Doug, and this is interesting what you said.
is that the technology was moving so quickly that the cards, the graphics cards they were producing.
became obsolete, exactly as you said. Within 18 months. So what happened, there was a backwash in the market.
very good cards. Which were useful for games. So there was a second-hand market whilst they were building the latest ones.
So, so it's just reminded me of this situation where.
all these data centers that have become obsolete, maybe that can… that will produce cheap.
alternative computing power for something. What that something is? I have no idea, but I just thought I'd… mention it.
Thank you very much.
Okay, let's take a deep breath.
And then, uh, we can close out this call. We have several different topics proposed for future calls, really juicy ones, so…
I'll pick from among those, and uh…
Alright, thank you very much. This has been…
Delightful.
Let's be careful out there.